
000
FXUS61 KLWX 081448
AFDLWX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Baltimore MD/Washington DC
1048 AM EDT Fri Apr 8 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
An upper-level low will continue to influence the region 
through part of the weekend, bring unsettled conditions. 
Some improvement is expected early next week in the form of 
high pressure with warmer conditions.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Mid morning update: No major changes to the forecast for today.
Mostly sunny at the moment, but clouds will be on the increase 
over the next few hours as daytime heating ensues beneath the 
upper level low. Low-topped, instability driven showers, and 
possibly even a few thunderstorms should eventually form across 
the area this afternoon into this evening. The strongest of 
these storms may be capable of producing a little pea sized hail
(given relatively cold temperatures aloft) or gusts to around
30-40 mph. Previous discussion follows...

An upper- level low will continue to move further east, away 
from the Great Lakes regions later today. With this influencing 
system expected to linger over the next few days, increased 
cloud coverage and ongoing precipitation chances throughout the 
day are expected.

As the upper low continues to track eastward coupled with peak 
daytime heating (50s and 60s east of the Allegheny Front) will 
allow for some showers and even rumbles of thunder to arise 
during the early afternoon hours and progress from west to east 
throughout the rest of the afternoon. Latest CAMs continue to 
hint at 100 to 200+ j/jg SBCAPE during the afternoon and evening
hours across areas east of the Allegheny Front and mainly west 
of US-15. For now, with instability remaining lackluster along 
with shear parameters remaining below threshold, do expect a few
thunderstorms across the aforementioned area through the 
evening hours. Nonetheless, rain chances looks to be fairly 
widespread late this afternoon and evening before tapering off 
as peak daytime heating winds down for the day. Northwesterly 
winds will be elevated throughout the day, with some of these 
winds mixing down fairly well in some of these more low- topped 
cells throughout the afternoon.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
For Saturday, the upper low will be fairly close to the region,
maybe just to the north of the Mason-Dixon line by early 
Saturday morning. Expecting another round of showers for the 
afternoon hours as the upper low eventually extends further 
east. With some SBCAPE mixed in, could see some isolated 
instances of graupel with these showers should the instability 
be realized. In the higher elevations where temperatures will 
continue to decline and be in the upper 30s for a high, upslope 
snow showers are possible with the lingering low- level moisture
in place. Given the potential instability present, snow squalls
may be possible. Road temperature thresholds may not be 
realized given the antecedent conditions but would like to 
continue to monitor this threat as we get closer. We'll see low 
temperatures drop down into the 20s and 30s areawide.

By Sunday, as a trough axis pushes further offshore, the upper 
low will continue to move further east. A few lingering 
rain/snow showers are possible for the Allegheny Front during 
this time with some isolated rain showers elsewhere as the 
upper-level low continues to spin further east throughout the 
day. With WNW flow continuing to remain in place, highs for 
Sunday will only be in the 40s and 50s in most places with only 
30s for the higher elevations.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure will slide by to the south on Monday. This will
allow a chilly morning to warm up notably by afternoon as winds
turn southwesterly. However, some guidance depicts a warm front
moving through the region bringing some light rain, especially
across the mountains, so while milder weather is likely, Monday
may not actually turn out dry. 

The majority of guidance pushes the warm front through the
region by Tuesday and stalls a cold front approaching from the 
northwest, resulting in another notable increase in temperatures
for the second day of the workweek. Tuesday looks drier right
now compared to Monday (which doens't look particularly wet), so
presuming the majority of guidance is accurate, Tuesday may be
the nicest day of the week. Its notable though that a few
models, notably the 0Z GFS, do drag the cold front back south
into the area, which likely will keep temps lower. 

This scenario plays a role in Wednesday's projections, where the
GFS keeps temps lower as another warm front tries to lift back
north across the region and the threat of some rain exists.
However, most guidance holds the front to our north again on
Wednesday (in fact, it probably heads further away from us),
keeping temps quite warm. 

By Thursday, a strong system in the northern Plains drags a cold
front toward us, but most guidance is slower, keeping the front
west of the region (and keeping our region warm and mostly dry)
for Thursday. However, the GFS again is a bit different, with a
faster frontal timing, resulting in a better chance of showers
and once again, temps staying lower.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
VFR conditions are expected through the weekend with some 
lingering showers around and winds out of the SW this afternoon 
and turning more northwesterly Saturday. A few showers may 
briefly lower ceilings but otherwise, VFR conditions expected 
through the weekend aside from an isolated chance for graupel 
during the afternoon on Saturday.

VFR conditions will predominate Monday and Tuesday as high
pressure pushes over and then east of the area.

&&

.MARINE...
NW flow will allow for winds to elevate throughout the 
afternoon. Late afternoon showers should be enough to mix some 
of these winds down to the waters and generate SCA criteria 
winds throughout the afternoon. SCA conditions may continue into
Saturday as WNW flow continues to build in.

High pressure will keep winds mostly below SCA levels Monday and
Tuesday. However, southerly channeling as warmer air pushes
north on the back side of high pressure may result in low-end
SCA conditions during the night-time hours.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Water levels should gradually diminish over the next few days as
winds slowly become more off-shore, allowing anomalies to drop.
However, high tides will reach action stage at several sites
through today, at least, and there remains a slight chance one
or two sites briefly touches minor.

&&

.LWX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
DC...None.
MD...None.
VA...None.
WV...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for 
     ANZ530>543.
     Small Craft Advisory from 9 AM to 6 PM EDT Saturday for 
     ANZ530>543.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...RCM/ADM
NEAR TERM...KJP/ADM
SHORT TERM...ADM
LONG TERM...RCM
AVIATION...RCM/ADM
MARINE...RCM/ADM
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...RCM
